# List of Campaigns

- URL: https://knowledgebase.webengage.com/docs/app-in-line-hub
- Publication Date: Not found
- Scraped At: 2026-06-04T09:16:15.994414+00:00

List of Campaigns
List of Campaigns
is the first interface you'll experience when you select
In-Line Content
from the navigation panel of your dashboard, as shown below. It's a central repository of all the
App In-Line Content
created by you, making it easy for you to create, analyze and modify campaigns.
Click to enlarge
Understanding List of Campaigns
This section gives you an overview of your App In-line Content. You can apply campaign filters, search for the campaign using the campaign name in the search bar, and download and schedule the reports.
Click to enlarge
Campaign Filters
You can search the campaigns by applying the campaign filters to get an accurate result.
Status
Each
App In-line Content
can have any of the following statuses, discussed in further detail
here
:
Draft
Upcoming
Running
Paused
Ended
Click to enlarge
Tags
Tag is a handy feature that helps you categorize your campaigns as per their purpose, target audience, or any other parameter that makes them easier to locate. If you have added
Tags
while creating the campaign, they will show in the drop-down, making your search easier.
Click to enlarge
Property
Every campaign has a
Property
attached, which is created/ selected while creating a campaign.
Click to enlarge
OS
Campaigns can be created for users of specific OS, filter the campaigns based on the targetted OS.
Click to enlarge
Search for a Campaign
Skip the hunt - use the search bar placed on the top right to dig out existing campaigns. Type in a keyword, we'll match it to all the campaign titles and tags, presenting a list from which you can choose!
Click to enlarge
Download and Schedule Reports
📘
Please Note
Reports can be downloaded and scheduled by only those
Admins
that have access to
Account Management.
If you're unable to do so, then please get in touch with your account owner.
Here's how you can obtain a report to analyze the performance of multiple
App In-Line Content
over a specific time frame:
Click to enlarge
Downloading a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Download icon
placed on the top right to obtain a copy of performance stats for all your App In-Line Content for a specific time frame.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Scheduling a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Schedule icon
placed on the top right to have performance reports delivered periodically to you and your teammates' inbox.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Visualization Format
While the default data visualization format is a
Percentage (%
), you can change this to a
Numbers (#)
through the overflow menu placed on the top right, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Column Walkthrough
Campaign features allow you to create
App In-line Content
,
Modify Campaigns
, and
Analyze
them. It also provides you with a bird's eye view of the campaigns and their performance.
Click to enlarge
Let's walk you through all the column headers shown here:
Campaign Name:
Includes a list of all the campaign titles, hyperlinked to the
campaign's Overview
section.
Layout:
Shows the campaign view (Banner/ Text) selected at the time of creating the campaign.
OS:
Shows the platform targeted by the
App In-Line Content,
indicated by:
Android icon
for campaigns sent just to
Android
devices
iOS icon
for campaigns sent just to
iOS
devices
Both icons for campaigns sent to
Android
and
iOS
devices
Status:
Each
App In-Line Content
can have any of the following statuses, discussed in further detail
here
:
Draft
Upcoming
Running
Paused
Ended
Start Date:
Indicates the date and time on which the campaign started getting delivered to its target audience.
(Unique) Impressions:
Indicates the total number of users that have viewed the
App in-line Content
at least once.
(Unique) Clicks:
Calculated against
Impressions,
it indicates the percentage of users that have clicked on the
App in-line Content.
(Unique) Conversions:
Calculated against
Impressions,
it indicates the percentage of users that have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Detailed read on
Conversion Tracking
.
Revenue:
Indicates the amount of revenue generated by the total number of times users have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
, within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Revenue
is always shown in the
Currency
selected by you while setting up
Revenue Mapping
.
Detailed read
.
Tags:
Tag is a handy feature that helps you categorize your campaigns as per their purpose, target audience, or any other parameter that makes them easier to locate.
Property:
Shows the name of the property associated with the campaign.
🚧
Related Reads
A comprehensive list of all the performance indicators tracked for
App In-Line Content
Action Centre
Using the options nested under the overflow menu placed next to a
Campaign's Name,
you can choose to
Edit, Delete, Duplicate or Tag
a campaign, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
📘
Note
You can prioritize the campaigns within the same properties, this can be done either from the ‘List of Properties’ page action dropdown for each Property OR within a Property Details page (Properties > select a property).
Prioritize Campaigns:
Prioritizing your campaigns can be an important feature that you may need. Prioritizing your campaigns can be used in cases where the same user is eligible for multiple campaigns within the same property.
🚧
Please Note:
Here are certain prerequisites that you require to prioritise your campaigns:
To prioritise you must have a campaign maker or campaign checker permissions
There must be at least 2 campaigns that are running or an upcoming campaign.
Access Campaign Prioritization
There are 2 ways to access this feature from the ‘Properties’ page of App In-line Content:
Click on the Actions dropdown menu of any running or upcoming campaign and select the ‘Prioritize campaign for this property’ option OR
Select a property, Click on the ‘Prioritize Campaigns’ beside the edit icon on the top bar
Prioritize your Campaigns
Within the ‘Prioritize Campaign’ Modal, you will find all the campaigns (Standalone as well as Journey campaigns on the selected property) which are in running or upcoming (that will be active in the near future). By default, you will notice all the journey and relay campaigns (if present) will be listed together in the top priority bucket and all standalone campaigns will be listed together in the next priority bucket.
Reorder the Priority of your Campaign
If you would like to change the priority of a particular campaign, use the following steps.
Click on ’Reorder’
Drag and drop the campaign that you would like to reorder
Click on ‘Save’.
While reordering, you can drag the campaign to an already existing priority bucket or create a new priority bucket by clicking on ‘Click to add a new priority’.
Things to keep in mind:
Campaigns at the top will always have the highest priority. Within the same bucket, campaigns will be shown in left-to-right order.
If there are multiple campaigns within the same priority bucket, the latest campaign created will be shown first.
Sometimes journey or relay campaigns may not show up as per their priority as updating the journey status of a user may take a few minutes. In such cases, the next prioritized campaign would be shown to the user
Please feel free to drop in a few lines at
[email protected]
in case you have any further queries or feedback. We're always just an email away!
Updated
7 months ago
Understanding Properties
Creating App In-line Campaigns
Copy Page
