# Analyzing Web In-line Overview

- URL: https://knowledgebase.webengage.com/docs/analyzing-web-in-line-overview
- Publication Date: Not found
- Scraped At: 2026-06-04T09:16:15.994414+00:00

Analyzing Web In-line Overview
Once you have launched a few
Web Personalization campaigns
through the channel or journeys, you will be able to analyze their collective impact on user engagement, conversions, and revenue through
Web Personalization Overview.
🚧
What Kind of Data is Shown Here?
You will see cumulative stats based on user-campaign interactions that occur within the
selected time frame
.
How to Access
As shown below, this section can be accessed from the
central hub of Web Personalization
by selecting
Overview
from the navigation bar.
Click to enlarge
Define the Time Frame of Analysis
By default,
Web Personalization Overview
shows you the overall impact of all the
Web Personalization campaigns
for the
Last 7 days
against key performance indicators like
Reachability, New Users, Revenue, Users Engaged
and so on.
Click to enlarge
As shown above, using the filter placed on the top right, you can choose to analyze the channel's performance for the following durations:
Yesterday
Last 7 Days
Last 30 Days
How to Analyze
Now, let's show you how you can analyze
Web Personalization Overview
to gain valuable insights into the channel's impact on user engagement, conversions, and revenue.
🚧
Get all this data in your inbox!
You can analyze the collective impact of all
Web campaigns
by scheduling reports for your entire team! Head over to
Settings> Scheduled Reports
in your dashboard to set it up.
Overview
This section provides a comprehensive overview of the channel's performance against broad metrics like
Channel Reachability, New Users added, Users Engaged, and Total Revenue generated.
Click to enlarge
Let's go over each card:
Users Engaged
Indicates unique users that have received at least one
Web Personalization campaign
within the selected
time frame
.
If a user receives multiple
Web Personalization Banners,
then they will be counted towards the total number of
Users Engaged
only once to avoid double counting.
Total Impressions
Indicates the total number of times users have viewed your
Web Personalization Campaigns
within the selected *
time frame
.
Unique Clicks
Indicates the number of users who have clicked on the
Personalized Web Element
at least once after viewing it, within the selected *
time frame
.
Revenue
Indicates a sum of the revenue generated by the
Total Conversions
tracked for all the
Web Personalization campaigns
within the selected
time frame
.
Revenue numbers are always shown in the
currency
selected by you while setting up
Revenue Mapping
.
🚧
Please Note
If you have not specified a
Conversion Event
for a campaign while creating it, or if the specified
Conversion Event
is not mapped as a
Revenue Event
,
then
Revenue
will not be tracked for it.
Detailed read on how Revenue Tracking works.
Campaign Tag Performance
Tags
is a handy feature that helps you categorize your campaigns as per their end-goal, target audience, frequency, engagement strategy, and so on. While tagging is optional, we highly recommend that you do so while creating a campaign as:
It enables you to analyze the overall impact of specific campaign categories on driving user engagement, conversions, and revenue.
It enables you to compare the performance of campaigns categorized under each Tag and identify the most effective category.
As highlighted below, you can choose to analyze engagement trends for each Tag (campaign category) defined by you to gain granular insights.
Let's discuss the columns under the tags:
Tags:
Shows the tags that have been created for various campaigns. The tags are shown in descending order, with the highest performing tag on the top.
Impressions:
Indicates the number of times users have seen a campaign within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Campaigns:
Total campaigns sent within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Conversions:
Unique users who performed conversion within the campaign's conversion deadline and the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Revenue:
Total revenue generated through all the conversions that occurred within the selected time frame for the selected campaign type.
Campaign Comparison
The most insightful section of
Web Personalization Overview, Campaign Comparison
helps you analyze the collective impact of all your campaigns and identify trends of user-channel interactions against key metrics, split by campaign types.
It has been divided into two subsections to facilitate multi-dimensional analysis:
Top Panel
Graph
Click to enlarge
By default,
Campaign Comparison
shows you the overall performance of all
Web Personalization campaigns
for the selected
time frame
. You can further customize the data by selecting a
campaign Tag.
Here's how you can go about it:
Select Tag
Tag
is a handy feature that helps you categorize your campaigns as per their purpose, target audience, or any other parameter that makes them easier to locate. As highlighted above, you can choose to view a specific group of
Web Personalization campaign
by selecting a tag from the dropdown.
Click to enlarge
Let's get you acquainted with this section:
Top Panel
Here you can analyze the performance of
Web Personalization
as a channel against broad metrics and collect valuable insights.
Click to enlarge
👍
Analyzing Channel Performance
In the visual above, we have analyzed
All Web Personalization campaigns for the Last 30 Days as a Funnel.
We can see that
21 Campaigns
were sent to all users, out of which
0.07% users converted (Unique Conversions)
and contributed
€ 14,096 in Revenue.
This means that:
Each campaign contributed € 671, on an average.
Such insights not only help you gauge ROI but also help determine the viability of engaging users through the channel in the long run.
Let's quickly go over the performance indicator shown here:
Campaigns:
Indicates the total number of campaigns sent within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Unique Impressions:
Captured from your user's device, it indicates the number of times users have seen a
Web Personalized message
within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Unique Clicks:
Calculated against
Impressions,
it indicates the percentage of users that have clicked on a
Web Personalization campaign
within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Unique Conversions:
Calculated against
Impressions,
it indicates the percentage of users that have performed the
Conversion Event
of a
Web Personalization campaign
within its
Conversion Deadline
,
in the selected time frame, for the chosen campaign type.
Revenue:
Indicates a sum of the revenue generated by the
Total Conversions
tracked for all the
Web Personalization campaigns
within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Detailed read on how revenue tracking works.
🚧
Related Read
Please refer to [Campaign Performance Indicators](web-personalization-performance-metrics for a comprehensive list of all the metrics tracked for
Web Personalization campaigns.
Select a Data Format (Optional)
Using the overflow menu highlighted below, you can choose to analyze
Clicks
and
Conversions
as a numerical value (by selecting #) or as a percentage value (by selecting %).
Click to enlarge
Graph
Here you can analyze the correlation between
Unique Impressions, Unique Clicks, and Unique Conversions, and Revenue
as trend graphs, split by days, for the selected
time frame
and campaign type.
Click to enlarge
👍
Analyzing Web Personalization Impression, Click and Conversion Trends
In the visual above, we have analyzed the performance of
Triggered Web Personalization campaigns
over the
Last 30 Days.
It reveals that;
The highest number of
Unique Conversions
occurred on
February 18
.
The lowest number of
Unique Conversions
took place on
March 12
.
This data will let you understand which
Web Personalization Campaign
led to the highest conversion in the last 30 days.
We will need to dig deeper into the following aspects to find our answers:
How many
Web Personalization Banners
were sent on these days?
Who was the target audience of each campaign?
What were the campaigns about?
(message, layout, links, campaign type, and so on)
Did all these campaigns have a
Conversion Event
attached to them?
(If a Conversion Event was not specified while creating the campaign, then conversions will not be tracked for it. This is an important factor that could skew your insights.)
Select the Format of Visualization (Optional)
Lastly, while the default format of visualization is a
Line Graph,
using the overflow menu highlighted below, you can choose to analyze data as a
Bar Graph.
Click to enlarge
🚧
Why do I see 'No Data to Display' in this section?
The message indicates that campaigns of the selected type do not exist. This usually occurs if:
The campaigns were deleted
No campaigns were sent within the selected time frame
No data was tracked for the selected campaign type within the chosen time frame
For example, let's say that you select
Journey
as the campaign type and choose to analyze the user-channel interactions that occurred
Yesterday.
However, instead of data, you are shown
No Data to Display.
This means that no data was collected for
Journey Web Personalization campaigns
within the selected time frame, indicating that the respective journeys have been
Paused
or
Stopped.
Control Group Report
This section indicates overall campaign performance v/s control groups for the campaigns where either Universal or Custom control groups have been added.
Based on the 'Conversions' in your Target Group (users who were not part of the CG) and the selected Control Group, you will be able to see the overall Uplift (or downlift) that your campaigns are having. Conversion Uplift is calculated using this formula:
Conversion Uplift =[(Unique Conversion Rate of TG/ Unique Conversion Rate of CG) x 100] - 100
In addition to conversion uplift, you can also calculate the revenue increment through Revenue and Order Uplift.
Formula to calculate Revenue Uplift :
CG projected total revenue
= CG(Total Revenue / Total Sent Count) X TG Total Sent Count
Revenue Uplift (absolute value)
= [TG Revenue - CG Revenue (Projected to TG Volume)]
Revenue Uplift %
= [TG Revenue / CG Revenue (Projected to TG Volume) X 100] - 100
Formula to calculate Order Uplift
Order Uplift (absolute value)
= (TG Order Rate - CG Order Rate) X TG Total Sent Count
Order Uplift %
= (TG Order Rate / CG Order Rate X 100) - 100
🚧
Please Note
Control Group report is Visible only when you have created a Universal Control Group or Custom Control Group.
Click here
to learn how to create one.
Campaigns in which a conversion event is added and selected control group is attached along are only taken into consideration for this analysis.
Engagement Trends
This section helps you analyze user engagement trends for all
Web Personalization campaigns
against the most crucial performance indicators -
Impressions, Clicks, and Conversions. (
List of all Performance Indicators tracked for Web Personalization campaigns
)
Click to enlarge
👍
Analyzing Web Personalization Engagement Trends
In the visual above, we have analyzed
Impression, Click, and Conversion trends
for the
Last 30 Days.
It reveals that:
Impressions, Clicks,
and
Conversions
seem to be distributed evenly across various time slots throughout the week - indicating that the time of sending the Web Personalized banner has little to no impact on user engagement.
The
Impression trends
clearly show spikes on
Wednesday, Thursday
, and
Friday
- making these ideal days to engage users.
However,
Click trends
seem to be high on
Monday
followed closely by
Thursday
. We will need to dig deeper into all the Web Personalization campaigns triggered on a Monday and Thursday over the last 30 days to understand this behavior better.
Interestingly,
Conversion trends
show spikes on
Monday.
This indicates that
Web Personalization Banners
triggered on a
Monday
inherently enjoyed higher conversion rates than the other days.
Monday
and
Wednesday
emerges as the best days to engage users with
Web Personalized campaigns,
given the high
Impressions
and
Conversions
recorded on the day.
Now, let's get you acquainted with the various metrics shown here:
Impressions Against Days and Time:
Indicates
Impression trends
for each day of the week against the following durations, for the selected
time frame
:
12 am to 4 am
4 am to 8 am
8 am to 12 pm
12 pm to 4 pm
4 pm to 8 pm
8 pm to 12 am
Clicks Against Days and Time:
Indicates
Unique Click
trends
for each day of the week against the following durations, for the selected time frame:
12 am to 4 am
4 am to 8 am
8 am to 12 pm
12 pm to 4 pm
4 pm to 8 pm
8 pm to 12 am
Clicks against Device Type:
Indicates
Unique Click
trends
for the selected time frame, as per the devices
(mobile, tablet)
on which the users received your
Web Personalized Banner.
Conversions Against Days and Time:
Indicates
Unique Conversion
trends
for each day of the week against the following durations, for the selected time frame:
12 am to 4 am
4 am to 8 am
8 am to 12 pm
12 pm to 4 pm
4 pm to 8 pm
8 pm to 12 am
Download & Schedule Reports
🚧
Please Note
Reports can be downloaded and scheduled by only those
Admins
that have access to
Account Management.
If you're unable to do so, then please get in touch with your account owner.
Here's how you can obtain a report to analyze the performance of multiple Web Personalization campaigns over a specific time frame:
Click to enlarge
Downloading a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Download icon
placed on the top right to obtain a copy of performance stats for all your WhatsApp campaigns for a specific time frame.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Scheduling a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Schedule icon
placed on the top right to have performance reports delivered periodically to your and your teammates' inbox.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
We hope this gives you a good idea of how you can analyze the collective impact of all your
Web Personalization campaigns
on user engagement and revenue. Please feel free to drop in a few lines at
[email protected]
if you have any queries. We're always just an email away!
Updated
7 months ago
Analyzing Inline Web In-line Campaigns
On-site Notifications
Copy Page
