# Analyzing Web Push Overview

- URL: https://knowledgebase.webengage.com/docs/analyzing-web-push-overview
- Publication Date: Not found
- Scraped At: 2026-06-04T09:16:15.994414+00:00

Analyzing Web Push Overview
How to analyze the collective impact of all your Web Push campaigns to gain valuable insights into user-channel interactions
Once you have launched a few
Web Push campaigns
through the channel or journeys, you will be able to analyze their collective impact on user engagement, conversions, and revenue through
Web Push Overview.
🚧
What Kind of Data is Shown Here?
You will see cumulative stats based on user-campaign interactions that occur within the
selected time frame
.
How to Access
As shown below, this section can be accessed from the
central hub of Web Push
by selecting
Overview
from the navigation bar.
Click to enlarge
So without much ado, let's dig in!
Define the Time Frame of Analysis
By default,
Web Push Overview
shows you the overall impact of all
Web Push campaigns
for the
Last 7 days
against key performance indicators like
Deliveries, Impressions, Conversions, Revenue, Deliveries, Failures
and so on.
Click to enlarge
As shown above, using the filter placed on the top right, you can choose to analyze the performance of all your channels within the following durations:
Yesterday
Last 7 Days
Last 30 Days
How to Analyze
Now, let's show you how you can analyze
Web Push Overview
to gain valuable insights into the channel's impact on user engagement, conversions, and revenue.
🚧
Get all this data delivered to your inbox!
You can analyze the collective impact of all
In-app campaigns
by scheduling reports for your entire team! Head over to
Settings> Scheduled Reports
in your dashboard to set it up.
Overview
This section provides a comprehensive overview of the channel's performance against broad metrics like
Channel Reachability
,
New Subscribers
added,
Unsubscribers
,
Users Engaged
and Total
Revenue
generated.
Click to enlarge
Let's go over each card:
Reachability
Reachability is a measure of whether or not a user can be reached through the various channels of engagement. Thus, this card indicates the number of users that can be engaged via
Web Push Notifications,
at present.
Reachability Percentage:
As highlighted in the visual above, the
Web Push reachability
of your entire user base is also indicated as a percentage value, helping you gauge the viability of leveraging this channel to engage all your users.
🚧
Please Note
Channel reachability is calculated over the entire lifetime of your users and is updated daily to factor in the reachability of new users and the changing channel preferences of existing users. For the same reason,
Reachability
cannot be analyzed for a particular time frame.
Detailed Read
New Subscribers
All users who have opted-in to receive Web Push Notifications within the selected
time frame
,
are considered towards the total number of
New Subscribes.
Unsubscribes
All users who have unsubscribed to your channel by disabling
Web Push
for your domain in their browser settings within the selected
time frame
are considered towards the total number of
Unsubscribes.
Users Engaged
Indicates unique users that have received at least one
Web Push campaign
within the selected
time frame
.
If a user gets multiple _Web Push Notifications, they will be counted towards the total number of _Users Engaged* only once to avoid double counting.
Revenue
Indicates a sum of the revenue generated by the
Total Conversions
tracked for all the
Web Push campaigns
within the selected
time frame
.
Revenue numbers are always shown in the
currency
selected by you while setting up
Revenue Mapping
.
🚧
Please Note
If you have not specified a
Conversion Event
for a campaign while creating it, or if the specified
Conversion Event
is not mapped as a
Revenue Event
,
then
Revenue
will not be tracked for it.
Detailed read on how Revenue Tracking works.
Tags
Tags help you organize your campaigns and access them quickly. The below shows the tag-based performance per campaign.
Click to enlarge
As you can see, the tag
webpush
performed the best and was a part of 97% of campaigns out of 98 campaigns sent out.
Control Group report
This section indicates overall campaign performance v/s control groups for the campaigns where either Universal or Custom control groups have been added.
Based on the 'Conversions' in your Target Group (users who were not part of the CG) and the selected Control Group, you will be able to see the overall Uplift (or downlift) that your campaigns are having. Conversion Uplift is calculated using this formula:
Conversion Uplift =[(Unique Conversion Rate of TG/ Unique Conversion Rate of CG) x 100] - 100
In addition to conversion uplift, you can also calculate the revenue increment through Revenue and Order Uplift.
Formula to calculate Revenue Uplift :
CG projected total revenue
= CG(Total Revenue / Total Sent Count) X TG Total Sent Count
Revenue Uplift (absolute value)
= [TG Revenue - CG Revenue (Projected to TG Volume)]
Revenue Uplift %
= [TG Revenue / CG Revenue (Projected to TG Volume) X 100] - 100
Formula to calculate Order Uplift
Order Uplift (absolute value)
= (TG Order Rate - CG Order Rate) X TG Total Sent Count
Order Uplift %
= (TG Order Rate / CG Order Rate X 100) - 100
click to enlarge
🚧
Please Note
Control Group report is Visible only when you have created a Universal Control Group or Custom Control Group.
Click here
to learn how to create one.
Campaigns in which a conversion event is added and selected control group is attached along are only taken into consideration for this analysis.
Campaign Comparison
The most insightful section of
Web Push Overview, Campaign Comparison
helps you analyze the collective impact of all your campaigns and identify trends of user-channel interactions against key metrics, split by campaign types.
It has been divided into two subsections to facilitate multi-dimensional analysis:
Top Panel
Graph
Click to enlarge
By default,
Campaign Comparison
shows you the overall performance of all
Web Push campaigns
for the selected
time frame
. You can further customize the data by choosing a
campaign type.
Here's how you can go about it:
Apply Filter
Select a Campaign Type
As discussed under
Campaigns and Its Types
,
messages sent through the various channels of engagement are called
campaigns
and can be of the following types:
One-Time, Triggered, Recurring, Journey, and Relay.
Click to enlarge
Using the navigation bar highlighted above, you can select a campaign type to narrow down the scope of analysis.
📘
The following options can be selected here:
All:
The default option selected here, it helps you analyze the channel's performance on the basis of all types of campaigns sent through it.
One-time:
Helps you analyze the channel's performance only on the basis of its one-time campaigns.
Triggered
:
Helps you analyze the channel's performance only on the basis of its triggered campaigns.
Recurring
:
Helps you analyze the channel's performance only on the basis of its recurring campaigns.
Journey
:
Helps you analyze the channel's performance only on the basis of its journey campaigns.
Relay
:
Helps you analyze the channel's performance only on the basis of its relay campaigns.
Tags
Tags are the keywords that you associate with the campaign while creating a campaign. Tags help you analyze campaign results for a group of campaigns that belong to a tag. From the drop-down, select the tags you want to analyze.
Split By
You can choose to analyze the result to split by
Channels, Type,
or
Tags
.
Now let's get you acquainted with each subsection:
Top Panel
Here you can analyze the performance of
Web Push,
as a channel, against broad metrics and collect valuable insights.
Click to enlarge
Let's quickly go over the performance indicator shown here:
Campaigns:
Indicates the total number of campaigns sent within the selected
time frame
for the chosen campaign type.
Users Engaged:
Indicates unique users that received at least one
Web Push campaign
within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Delivered:
Indicates the total number of campaigns delivered to all users within the selected time frame, for the chosen campaign type. It includes multiple campaign deliveries to a user, and is thus, significantly higher than the number of
Users Engaged.
Impressions:
Captured from your user's device, it indicates the percentage of users that have seen a
Web Push Notification
within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type. The percentage value is calculated against
Delivered messages.
Unique Clicks:
Calculated against
Delivered messages,
it indicates the percentage of users that have clicked on a
Web Push campaign
within the selected time frame for the chosen campaign type.
Unique Conversions:
Calculated against
Delivered messages,
it indicates the percentage of users that have performed the
Conversion Event
of a
Web Push campaign
within its
Conversion Deadline
,
in the selected time frame, for the chosen campaign type.
Revenue:
Indicates a sum of the Revenue generated by the
Total Conversions
tracked for all the
Web Push campaigns
within the selected time frame, for the chosen campaign type.
Detailed read on how revenue tracking works.
🚧
Related Read
Please refer to
Campaign and Channel Performance Indicators
for a comprehensive list of all the metrics tracked for
Web Push campaigns.
Select a Data Format (Optional)
Using the overflow menu highlighted below, you can choose to analyze
Impressions, Clicks
and
Conversions
as a numerical value (by selecting #), or as a percentage value (by selecting %).
Click to enlarge
Graph
Here you can analyze the correlation between
Impressions, Unique Clicks, and Unique Conversions
as trend graphs, split by days, for the selected time frame and campaign type.
Click to enlarge
Similarly, you can individually analyze the performance of all your
One-time, Triggered, Recurring, Journey, and Relay
campaigns, to assess what works the best for your users.
Select the Format of Visualization (Optional)
Lastly, while the default format of visualization is a
Line Graph,
using the overflow menu highlighted below, you can choose to analyze data as a
Bar Graph.
Click to enlarge
🚧
Why do I see 'No Data to Display' in this section?
The message indicates that campaigns of the selected type do not exist. This usually occurs if:
The campaigns were deleted.
No campaigns were sent within the time frame chosen.
No data was tracked for the selected campaign type within the specified time frame.
For example, let's say that you select
One-time
as the campaign type and choose to analyze the user-channel interactions that occurred
Yesterday.
However, instead of data, you are shown
No Data to Display.
This means that no data was collected for
One-time Web Push campaigns
within the selected time frame.
Delivery Failure & Unsubscribe Trends
This section helps you analyze all the campaign failures and unsubscribes within the selected
time frame
. Let's go over the various trends and metrics shown here:
Delivery Failures Against Days:
Indicates campaign failure trends for the selected duration against days, the number of devices, and the reasons for failure.
Click to enlarge
🚧
Related Read
Here's a
complete list
of all the reasons due to which a
Web Push campaign
could fail to get delivered to your users.
Number of Web Push before Unsubscribe:
Indicates the total number of web push notifications a user was sent before they unsubscribed.
Days from first Web Push to Unsubscribe:
Indicates the total number of days within which a user unsubscribed, after receiving the first web push notification.
Engagement Trends
This section helps you analyze user engagement trends for all
Web Push Notifications
against the most crucial performance indicators -
Impressions, Clicks, and Conversions.
Click to enlarge
Now, let's get you acquainted with the various metrics shown here:
Impressions Against Days and Time:
Indicates
Impression trends
for each day of the week against the following durations, for the selected
time frame
:
12 am to 4 am
4 am to 8 am
8 am to 12 pm
12 pm to 4 pm
4 pm to 8 pm
8 pm to 12 am
Impressions Against Device Type:
Indicates Impression trends for the selected time frame as per the device (desktop, mobile, tablet) on which users received your
Web Push Notifications.
Clicks Against Days and Time:
Indicates
Unique Click
trends
for each day of the week against the following durations, for the selected time frame:
12 am to 4 am
4 am to 8 am
8 am to 12 pm
12 pm to 4 pm
4 pm to 8 pm
8 pm to 12 am
Clicks against Device Type:
Indicates
Unique Click
trends
for the selected time frame as per the devices
(desktop, mobile, tablet)
on which the users received the
Web Push Notifications.
Conversions Against Days and Time:
Indicates
Unique Conversion
trends
for each day of the week against the following durations, for the selected
time frame
:
12 am to 4 am
4 am to 8 am
8 am to 12 pm
12 pm to 4 pm
4 pm to 8 pm
8 pm to 12 am
🚧
Related Read
Please refer to
Campaign and Channel Performance Indicators
for a complete list of all the metrics tracked for
Web Push campaigns.
We hope this gives you a good idea of how you can analyze the collective impact of your
Web Push campaigns
on driving user engagement and revenue. Please feel free to drop in a few lines at
[email protected]
if you have any queries. We're always just an email away!
Updated
7 months ago
Analyzing Web Push Campaigns
Web Push Layouts: Image & Text Guidelines
Copy Page
