# List of Campaigns

- URL: https://knowledgebase.webengage.com/docs/rcs-list-of-campaigns
- Publication Date: Not found
- Scraped At: 2026-06-04T09:16:15.994414+00:00

List of Campaigns
Understanding the central hub of RCS in your dashboard
List of Campaigns
is the first interface you'll experience when you select
RCS
from the navigation panel of your dashboard, as shown below. It's a central repository of all the
RCS Campaigns
created by you, making it easy for you to create, analyze and modify campaigns.
Click to enlarge
Understanding List of Campaigns
This section gives you an overview of your RCS campaigns. You can apply campaign filters, search for the campaign using the campaign name in the search bar, and download and schedule the reports.
Click to enlarge
Campaign Filters
You can search the campaigns by applying the campaign filters to get accurate result.
Type
As discussed under
Campaigns and Its Types
, messages sent through the various channels of engagement are called campaigns and can be of the following types:
One-Time, Triggered, Recurring, Transactional, Journey, and Relay.
While the default view shows you
All
types of campaigns, as shown above, you can customize the list by selecting a campaign type from the drop-down menu.
Detailed read on
Campaign and Its Types
.
Click to enlarge
Status
Each
RCS campaign
can have any of the following statuses, discussed in further detail
here
:
Draft
Upcoming
Running
Paused
Ended
Click to enlarge
Tags
Tag is a handy feature that helps you categorize your campaigns as per their purpose, target audience, or any other parameter that makes them easier to locate. If you have added
Tags
while creating the campaign, they will show in the drop-down, making your search easier.
Click to enlarge
Search Campaign
Skip the hunt - use the search bar placed on the top right to dig out existing campaigns. Type in a keyword, we'll match it to all the campaign titles and tags, presenting a shortlist you can choose from! If you are looking for a particular campaign, then searching it by its name will fetch you the result right away.
Click to enlarge
Download and Schedule Reports
🚧
Please Note
Reports can be downloaded and scheduled by only those
Admins
that have access to
Account Management.
If you're unable to do so, then please get in touch with your account owner.
Here's how you can obtain a report to analyze the performance of multiple RCS campaigns over a specific time frame:
Click to enlarge
Downloading a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Download icon
placed on the top right to obtain a copy of performance stats for all your RCS campaigns for a specific time frame.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Scheduling a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Schedule icon
placed on the top right to deliver performance reports periodically to your and your teammates' inbox.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Visualization Format
While the default data visualization format is a
Percentage (%
), you can change this to a
Numbers (#)
through the overflow menu placed on the top right, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Column Walkthrough
Campaign features allow you to create
RCS Campaign
,
Modify Campaigns
, and
Analyze
them. It also provides you a bird's eye view of the campaigns and their performance.
Click to enlarge
Let's walk you through all the column headers shown here:
Campaign Name:
Includes a list of all the campaign titles hyperlinked to the campaign's analysis section.
Type:
Shown only when
All
is selected in the navigation bar, it indicates the type of campaign
(One-time, Triggered, Recurring, Transactional, Journey).
Detailed read
Status:
Each
RCS campaign
can have any of the following statuses, discussed in further detail
here
.
Start Date:
Indicates the date and time the campaign started getting delivered to its target audience.
Delivered:
Indicates the total number of messages that have been delivered to the campaign's target audience over its entire lifetime.
(Unique) Read:
Calculated against
Delivered
messages, it indicates the percentage of users that have viewed or 'read' the
RCS
message at least once.
(Unique) Clicks:
Calculated against
Delivered
messages, it indicates the percentage of users that have clicked on a link included within the message.
(Unique) Conversions:
Calculated against
Delivered
messages, it indicates the percentage of users that have performed the campaign's/ journey's
Conversion Event
within its
Conversion Deadline
. Detailed read on
Conversion Tracking
.
Revenue:
Indicates the amount of revenue generated by the total number of times users have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Revenue
is always shown in the
Currency
selected by you while setting up
Revenue Mapping.
Detailed read on Revenue Tracking
.
Action Centre
Using the options nested under the overflow menu placed next to a
Campaign's Name,
you can choose to
Edit, Delete, Duplicate or Tag
a campaign, as shown below. You can also choose to
Download/Schedule
a performance report for a specific campaign.
Click to enlarge
📘
Please Note
Journey campaigns
can be edited only through the respective journey's
Live View.
For the same reason, you can only choose to
Download/Schedule
a performance report for journey campaigns.
Please feel free to drop in a few lines at
[email protected]
in case you have any further queries or feedback. We're always just an email away!
Updated
7 months ago
RCS
Creating RCS Campaigns
Copy Page
