# List of Campaigns

- URL: https://knowledgebase.webengage.com/docs/push-homepage
- Publication Date: Not found
- Scraped At: 2026-06-04T09:16:15.994414+00:00

List of Campaigns
Understanding the central hub of Push Notifications in your dashboard
List of Campaigns
is the first interface you'll experience when you select
Push
from the navigation panel of your dashboard, as shown below. It's a central repository of all the
Push Campaigns
created by you, making it easy for you to create, analyze and modify campaigns.
Click to enlarge
Analyzing List of Campaigns
This section presents a broad view of the performance of each
Push campaign
against key indicators like
Deliveries, Clicks, Conversions
and so on. Let's show you how you can customize the list to gain quick insights:
Step 1: Filter Campaign
Filter by Type
As discussed under
Campaigns and Its Types
, messages sent through the various channels of engagement are called campaigns and can be of the following types:
One-Time, Triggered, Recurring, Transactional, Journey and Relay.
Click to enlarge
While the default view shows you
All
types of campaigns, as shown above, you can customize the list by selecting a campaign type.
📘
The following options can be selected here:
All:
Shows you all types of
Push
campaigns created over the entire lifetime of your account.
One-time
:
Shows you only
One-time Push campaigns,
created over the entire lifetime of your account.
Triggered
:
Shows you only
Triggered Push campaigns,
created over the entire lifetime of your account.
Recurring
:
Shows you only
Recurring Push campaigns,
created over the entire lifetime of your account.
Transactional
:
Shows you only Transactional Push campaigns, created over the entire lifetime of your account.
Journey
:
Shows you only
Journey Push campaigns,
created over the entire lifetime of your account.
Relay
:
Shows you only the
Relay Push campaigns
that have been created over the entire lifetime of your account.
Drafts:
Shows you only those
Push campaigns
that are currently saved as drafts in your account.
Filter by Status
Every campaign has a status attached to it. The campaign might have
Ended
or can be in
Upcoming
status. You can apply the
Status
filter from the dropdown and choose the one that meets your current requirement.
Learn more about Campaign Status
here
.
Click to enlarge
Filter by Tags
You can
Filter
the campaigns by the associated
Tags
that you would have added while creating the campaigns.
Click to enlarge
Step 2: Analyze
Click to enlarge
Let's walk you through all the column headers shown here:
Campaign Name:
Includes a list of all the campaign titles, hyperlinked to the campaign's analysis section.
Type:
Shown only when
All
is selected in the navigation bar, it indicates the type of campaign
(One-time, Triggered, Recurring, Transactional, Journey, Relay).
Detailed read
OS:
Shows the platform targeted by the push campaign, indicated by:
Android icon
for
Push campaigns,
sent just to
Android
devices
iOS icon
for
Push campaigns
sent just to
iOS
devices
Both icons for
Push campaigns,
sent to
Android
and
iOS
devices
Status:
Each
Push campaign
can have any of the following statuses, discussed in further detail
here
:
Draft
Upcoming
Running
Paused
Ended
Start Date:
Indicates the date and time on which the campaign started getting delivered to its target audience.
Delivered:
Indicates the total number of messages that have been delivered to the campaign's target audience over its entire lifetime.
(Unique) Clicks:
Calculated against
Delivered
messages, it indicates the percentage of users that have clicked on the
Push Notification
over its entire lifetime.
(Unique) Conversions:
Calculated against
Delivered
messages, it indicates the percentage of users that have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Detailed read on
Conversion Tracking
.
Revenue:
Indicates the amount of revenue generated by the total number of times users have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
, within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Revenue
is always shown in the
Currency
selected by you while setting up
Revenue Mapping
.
Detailed read
.
🚧
Related Reads
A comprehensive list of all the performance indicators tracked for
Push Campaigns
Step 3: Select Data Format (Optional)
As shown below, using the overflow menu placed on the top left, you can choose to analyze
Clicks
and
Conversions
as a numerical value (by selecting #) or as a percentage value (by selecting %).
Click to enlarge
Features
Now, let's get you acquainted with all the actions you can take through this section:
Download/ Schedule Reports
🚧
Please Note
Reports can be downloaded and scheduled only by
Admins
with access to
Account Management.
If you're unable to do so, then please get in touch with your account owner.
Here's how you can obtain a report to analyze the performance of multiple Push campaigns over a specific time frame:
Click to enlarge
Downloading a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Download icon
placed on the top right to obtain a copy of performance stats for all your In-app campaigns for a specific time frame.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Scheduling a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Schedule icon
placed on the top right to have performance reports delivered periodically to your and teammates' inbox.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Access Channel Overview
You can choose to analyze the collective impact of all your
Push campaigns
against key performance indicators by accessing its
Channel Overview
,
as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Access Campaign Creation
The
campaign creation
interface can be accessed by clicking the
Plus
icon placed on the top left of this section, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Access a Campaign's Overview
You can choose to analyze the performance of a
Push
campaign in detail by clicking its (hyperlinked)
Campaign Name.
Doing so will take you to its
Campaign Overview
section, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Modify a Campaign
Using the options nested under the overflow menu placed next to a
Campaign's Name,
you can choose to
Edit, Delete, Duplicate or Tag
a campaign, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
However, do keep in mind that journey campaigns can be edited only through the respective journey's
Live View
.
For the same reason, no overflow menu is shown next to journey campaigns.
Search for a Campaign
Skip the hunt - Use the search bar placed on the top right to dig out existing campaigns. Simply type in a keyword, we'll match it to all the campaign titles and tags, presenting a list you can choose from!
(as shown below)
Click to enlarge
Updated
7 months ago
So, what's next?
Analyzing Push Overview
Analyzing Push Campaigns
Copy Page
