# List of Campaigns

- URL: https://knowledgebase.webengage.com/docs/in-app-homepage
- Publication Date: Not found
- Scraped At: 2026-06-04T09:16:15.994414+00:00

List of Campaigns
Understanding the central hub of In-app Notifications in your dashboard
List of Campaigns
is the first interface you'll experience when you select
In-app
from the navigation panel of your dashboard, as shown below. It's a central repository of all the
In-app Campaigns
created by you, making it easy for you to create, analyze and modify campaigns.
Click to enlarge
Analyzing List of Campaigns
This section presents a broad view of the performance of each
In-app campaign
against key indicators like
Impressions, Clicks, Conversions
and so on. Let's show you how you can customize the list to gain quick insights:
Step 1: Filter by Campaign Type
As discussed under
Campaigns and Its Types
, messages sent through the various channels of engagement are called campaigns and can be of the following types:
One-Time, Triggered, Recurring and Journey.
However, given the real-time and targeted nature of the channel, you can only send
Triggered
and
Journey
campaigns through
In-app.
Click to enlarge
While the default view shows you
All
types of campaigns, as shown above, you can customize the list by selecting a campaign type.
📘
The following options can be selected here:
All:
Shows you all types of
In-app
campaigns created over the entire lifetime of your account. (When selected, an additional column indicating
Campaign Type
is added to the table)
Triggered
:
Shows you only those campaigns that have been created through the channel, over the entire lifetime of your account.
Journey
:
Shows you only
Journey In-app campaigns,
created over the entire lifetime of your account.
Drafts:
Shows you only those
In-app campaigns
that are currently saved as drafts in your account.
Step 2: Analyze
Click to enlarge
Let's walk you through all the column headers shown here:
Campaign Name:
Includes a list of all the campaign titles, hyperlinked to the
campaign's Overview
section.
Type:
Shown only when
All
is selected in the navigation bar, it indicates the type of campaign
(One-time, Triggered, Recurring, Journey).
Detailed read here
OS:
Shows the platform targeted by the
In-app campaign,
indicated by:
Android icon
for campaigns sent just to
Android
devices
iOS icon
for campaigns sent just to
iOS
devices
Both icons for campaigns sent to
Android
and
iOS
devices
Status:
Each
In-app campaign
can have any of the following statuses, discussed in further detail
here
:
Draft
Upcoming
Running
Paused
Ended
Start Date:
Indicates the date and time at which the campaign started getting delivered to its target audience.
(Unique) Impressions:
Indicates the total number of users that have viewed the
In-app Notification
at least once.
(Unique) Clicks:
Calculated against
Impressions,
it indicates the percentage of users that have clicked on the
In-app Notification.
(Unique) Conversions:
Calculated against
Impressions,
it indicates the percentage of users that have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Detailed read on
Conversion Tracking
.
Revenue:
Indicates the amount of revenue generated by the total number of times users have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
, within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Revenue
is always shown in the
Currency
selected by you while setting up
Revenue Mapping
.
Detailed read here
.
🚧
Related Reads
A comprehensive list of all the performance indicators tracked for
In-app Campaigns
Step 3: Select Data Format (Optional)
As shown below, using the overflow menu placed on the top left, you can choose to analyze
Clicks
and
Conversions
as a numerical value (by selecting #) or as a percentage value (by selecting %).
Click to enlarge
Features
Now, let's get you acquainted with all the actions you can take through this section:
Download / Schedule Reports
🚧
Please Note
Reports can be downloaded and scheduled only by
Admins
who have access to
Account Management.
If you're unable to do so, then please get in touch with your account owner.
Here's how you can obtain a report to analyze the performance of multiple In-app campaigns over a specific time frame:
Click to enlarge
Downloading a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Download icon
placed on the top right to obtain a copy of performance stats for all your WhatsApp campaigns for a specific time frame.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Scheduling a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Schedule icon
placed on the top right to have performance reports delivered periodically to your teammates' inbox.
Here's a step-by-step guide.
Prioritize Campaigns
In cases where you have a user qualified for multiple in-app notifications, the ‘Prioritize Campaigns’ feature comes to the rescue. With the help of this feature, you can now control which notifications should be shown to the users first as per the priority set by you. Prioritization makes sure the campaign which has a higher priority will be shown first to the end user.
Access Campaign Prioritization
📘
Please Note:
Here are certain prerequisites that you require to prioritise your campaigns:
To prioritize you must have a campaign maker or campaign checker permissions
There must be at least 2 campaigns that are running or an upcoming campaign.
There are 2 ways to access this feature from the ‘List of campaigns’ page of in-app notifications:
By clicking on the ‘Prioritize campaign’ icon beside the search box
Or, Click on the actions dropdown menu of any running or upcoming campaign and select the ‘Prioritize’ option
Prioritize your Campaigns
Within the Prioritize Campaign modal, you will find all the notifications (standalone as well as journey campaigns) which are in running or upcoming (that will be run in the near future). By default, you will notice all the journey and relay campaigns (if present) will be listed together in the top priority bucket and all standalone campaigns will be listed together in the next priority bucket.
click to enlarge
Reorder the Priority of your Campaign
If you would like to change the priority of a particular campaign, use the following steps.
Click on ’Reorder’
Drag and drop the campaign that you would like to reorder
Click on ‘Save’.
While reordering you can either drag the campaign to an already existing priority bucket or create a new priority bucket by clicking on ‘Click to add a new priority’
click to enlarge
Things to keep in mind:
Campaigns at the top will always have the highest priority. Within the same bucket, campaigns will be shown in left-to-right order.
If there are multiple campaigns within the same priority bucket, the latest campaign created will be shown first.
Sometimes journey or relay campaigns may not show up as per their priority as updating the journey status of a user may take a few minutes. In such cases, the next prioritized campaign would be shown to the user
Access Channel Overview
You can choose to analyze the collective impact of all your
In-app campaigns
against key performance indicators by accessing its
Channel Overview
,
as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Access Campaign Creation
The campaign creation interface can be accessed by clicking the
Plus
icon placed on the top left of this section, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Access a Campaign's Overview
You can choose to analyze the performance of an
In-app
campaign in detail by clicking its (hyperlinked)
Campaign Name.
Doing so will take you to its
Campaign Overview
section, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
Modify a Campaign
Using the options nested under the overflow menu placed next to a
Campaign's Name,
you can choose to
Edit, Delete, Duplicate, Pause or Tag
a campaign, as shown below.
Click to enlarge
However, you can edit journey campaigns only through the respective journey's
Live View
.
For the same reason, no overflow menu is shown next to journey campaigns.
Search for a Campaign
Skip the hunt - use the search bar placed on the top right to dig out existing campaigns. Type in a keyword, we'll match it to all the campaign titles and tags, presenting a list from which you can choose!
(as shown below)
Click to enlarge
Updated
7 months ago
So, what's next?
Analyzing In-app Overview
Analyzing In-app Campaigns
Copy Page
