# List of Campaigns

- URL: https://knowledgebase.webengage.com/docs/web-in-line-hub
- Publication Date: Not found
- Scraped At: 2026-06-04T09:16:15.994414+00:00

List of Campaigns
Understanding the central hub of Web In-line Content in your dashboard
List of Campaigns
is the first interface you'll experience when you select
In-line Content
from the navigation panel of your dashboard, as shown below. It's a central repository of all the Web In-line Content campaigns created by you, making it easy for you to create, analyze and modify campaigns.
Analyzing List of Campaigns
This section presents a broad view of the performance of each Web In-line Content campaigns against key indicators like
User Engagement, Unique Clicks, Revenue
and so on. Let's show you how you can customize the list to gain quick insights:
Step 1: Filter by Campaign Type
As discussed under
Campaigns and Its Types
, messages sent through the various channels of engagement are called campaigns and can be of the following two types:
All, Triggered, Journeys or Relays.
While the default view shows you
All
types of campaigns, as shown above, you can customize the list by selecting the Triggered type.
Step 2: Analyze
Let's walk you through all the column headers shown here:
Campaign Name:
Includes a list of all the campaign titles hyperlinked to the campaign's analysis section.
Type:
Shown only when
All
is selected in the navigation bar, it indicates the type of campaign
(Triggered, Journey, Relay).
Detailed read
Status:
Each Web In-line campaign can have any of the following statuses, discussed in further detail
here
:
Draft
Upcoming
Running
Paused
Ended
Start Date:
Indicates the date and time the campaign started getting delivered to its target audience.
Unique Impressions:
Indicates the total number of users that have viewed the Web In-line campaign at least once in a session.
(Unique) Clicks:
Calculated against
Impressions
, indicates the percentage of users who have clicked on the
Web In-line Banner
over its entire lifetime.
(Unique) Conversions:
Calculated against
Delivered
messages, it indicates the percentage of users that have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
within its
Conversion Deadline
.
Detailed read on
Conversion Tracking
.
Revenue:
Indicates the amount of revenue generated by the total number of times users have performed the campaign's
Conversion Event
within its
Conversion Deadline
.
**
Revenue
is always shown in the
Currency
selected by you while setting up
Revenue Mapping
.
Detailed read
.
Properties:
It is the ID at which the Web In-line campaign is placed.
🚧
Related Reads
A comprehensive list of all the performance indicators tracked for
Web In-line Content
Step 3: Select Data Format (Optional)
As shown below, using the overflow menu placed on the top left, you can choose to analyze
Clicks
and
Conversions
as a numerical value (by selecting #) or as a percentage value (by selecting %).
Features
Now, let's get you acquainted with all the actions you can take through this section:
Download/ Schedule Reports
Here's how you can obtain a report to analyze the performance of multiple Web In-line campaigns over a specific time frame:
🚧
Please Note
Reports can be downloaded and scheduled only by
Admins
who have access to
Account Management.
If you're unable to do so, then please get in touch with your account owner.
Downloading a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Download icon
placed on the top right to obtain a copy of performance stats for all your Web In-line campaigns for a specific time frame.
Here's a step-by-step guide
.
Scheduling a Report:
As highlighted above, click the
Schedule icon
placed on the top right to have performance reports delivered periodically to your and your teammates' inbox.
Here's a step-by-step guide
.
Access Channel Overview
You can choose to analyze the collective impact of all your Web In-line campaigns against key performance indicators by accessing its
Channel Overview
.
Access Campaign Creation
The
Campaign Creation
interface can be accessed by clicking the
Plus
icon placed on the top left of this section, as shown below:
Access a Campaign's Overview
You can choose to analyze the performance of a Web In-line campaign in detail by clicking its (hyperlinked)
Campaign Name.
Doing so will take you to its
Campaign Overview
section, as shown below:
Modify a Campaign
Using the options nested under the overflow menu placed next to a
Campaign's Name,
you can choose to
Edit, Delete, Duplicate, or Tag
a campaign, as shown below:
However, do keep in mind that journey campaigns can be edited only through the respective journeys
Live View
.
For the same reason, no overflow menu is shown next to journey campaigns.
Search for a Campaign
Skip the hunt - Use the search bar placed on the top right to dig out existing campaigns. Simply type in a keyword, we'll match it to all the campaign titles and tags, presenting a list you can choose from!
(as shown below):
Updated
7 months ago
Web Personalization: In-line Content
Creating Web In-line Content Campaigns
Copy Page
